Ripley - Ripon

18 Dec 2004 15.5Km

Caught the 36 in chapel Allerton just after a bright dawn.
By the time I'd arrived at Ripley (9:30) it was raining
and the weather had closed in. The forecast was clearing
up to sunny intervals in the afternoon, so I had some hope.

A good excuse to christen the overtrousers I needed on 
Ben More anyway and found they kept me nice and warm so
left them on throughout the day.

As it was a Saturday, thought I would avoid main paths
and so avoided the Nidderdale Way route N out of Ripley
and followed the FP to Newton Beck which was guarded by
the herd of cows. The, thanks to the Ramblers, followed
the Permissive footpath skirting Sir Henry Wood. Here I
had my first of 3 encourters with people - a local old
gent with a 'Big Michael Wray' accent walking th'dog.
Advised me that there were 2 pubs in Markington doing
food.

Then met up with the Nidderdale Way, passed by one
runner and his dog. Here the first rays of sunshine
appeared. I left a marker at the highest point of the
mornings walk at SE285623 at RH turn in the footpath
as it first meets Cayton Gill Wood. It is underneath
the post with FP marker (on the right, looking N) at the turn.

Thinking about these markers, they are reminders for
me to choose the way of the cross, as the stones point
E. They remind me to "set my face to Jerusalem" as Jesus
did.

Just past this point, there is a nice viewpoint looking
across the Vale of York to the North York Moors.

Steeply down towards Cayton Gill Farm and a meeting with
some bored horses. Then head NW along a nice enclosed 
valley area. The T junction marks the intersection with
the Ripley - South Stainley walk I did a while back. I
follow this until at High Cayton take the FP heading
towards Hincks Hall. Stopping for a coffee hard boiled
egg at the second wall I meet, I realise I am ahead of
schedule for 12noon at Markington. 

So skip across to the Bridleway leading to Horse Hill Wood. The sound of Dogs
barking gets closer and closer and then I come across 
a rather shabby looking kennels with no-one about. Dogs
with all types of bark are holding a competition. I decide
to see if I can add my bark in situ. There is a stunned
silence after my first bark. They start again. I bark.
Again a stunned silence! Next strange sight is a man with
a flag at the edge of  the wood near Hob Green Hotel, waving
it at the wood for no apparent reason. Then remembering my
talk with the landlord at Middlesmoor, realise this guy is
probably a 'beater'. 

This is shortly followed by third strange sight of quick
succession - a herd of cows chasing two deer down a field.
Presumable, the deer had breached the cows fundamental 
rights to graze the grass of their field. So this turned out
to be an interesting diversion. It finished in farce however
as the 'short-cut' to Markington via FP to the W end of the
village ended in a farmyard covered in 3 inch deep 'swill'.
Took some brushing down to make myself presentable for the
pub.

Turns out that



 